---
comments: false
---

# Article VII: Membership / Ownership
The corporation shall be a non-stock corporation and shall be owned by its members, who shall be collectively called the Members of the Association, and no dividends or pecuniary profits shall be paid to its members. Membership in the Association, except for membership of the incorporators and the first Board of Directors, shall be limited to record owners of equitable title (or legal title if the equitable title has merged) of townhouses constructed or planned to be constructed on the property described above, and any additions thereto as may hereafter be brought within the jurisdiction of this Association by annexation as provided in Article XX herein and for this purpose. An owner of a townhouse shall automatically, upon becoming the owner of a townhouse, be a member of the Association, and shall remain a member of the Association until such time as his ownership ceases for any reason, at which time his membership in said Association shall automatically cease. Nothing herein is intended to include as members of the Association persons or entities who hold an interest merely as security for the performance of an obligation. No certificates of membership shall be issued and membership shall be evidenced by an official list of said members, which list shall be kept by the Secretary of the Association. No membership shall be issued to any other person or persons except as they may be issued in substitution for outstanding memberships assigned to the new record owners of equitable title (or legal title of equitable title has merged). Membership shall be appurtenant to and may not be separated from ownership of any lot.


In the event any such townhouse is owned by two or more persons, whether by joint tenancy, tenancy in common, community property or otherwise, the membership as to each townhouse unit shall be joint and a single membership for such townhouse shall be issued in the names of all, and they shall designate to the Association in writing at the time of issuance one of their number who shall hold the membership and have the power to vote said membership, and in th3e absence of such designation and until such designation is made, the Board of Directors of the Association shall make such designation.
