# ARTICLE VI: PARTY WALLS

The rights and duties of the owners of any lots within this townhouse project with respect to party walls shall be governed by the following:

  1. Each wall, including patio walls, which is constructed as part of the original construction of the townhouse multi-family structure, any part of which is placed on the dividing line between separate townhouse units, shall constitute a party wall. With respect to any such wall, each of the adjoining owners shall assume the burdens and be entitled to the benefits of theses restrictive covenants, and, to the extent not inconsistent herewith, the general rules of law regarding party walls shall be applied thereto.
  1. In the event any such party wall is damaged or destroyed through the act of one adjoining owner, or any of his guests, tenants, licensees, agents or members of his family (whether or not such act is negligent or otherwise culpable) so as to deprive the other adjoining owner of the full use and enjoyment of such wall, then the first of such owners shall forthwith proceed to rebuild and repair the same to as good condition as formerly without cost to the adjoining owner.
  1. In the event any such party wall is damaged or destroyed by some cause other than the act of one of the adjoining owners, hi agents, tenantsm licensees, guests or family (including ordinary wear and tear and deterioration from lapse of time), then in such event both such adjoining owners shall proceed forthwith to rebuild or repair the same to as good condition as formerly at their joint and equal expense.
  1. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Article, an owner who by his negligent or willful act causes any party wall to be exposed to the elements shall bear the whole cost of furnishing the necessary protection against such elements.
  1. The right of any owner to contribution from any other owner under this Article shall be appurtenant to the land and shall pass to such owner’s successors in title.
  1. In addition to meeting the other requirements of these restrictive covenants and of any building code oor similar regulations or ordinances, any owner proposing to modify, make additions to or rebuild his townhouse in any manner which requires the extension or other alteration of any party wall shall first obtain the written consent of the adjoining owner.
  1. In the event of a dispute between owners with respect to the repair or rebuilding of a party wall or with respect to the sharing of the cost thereof, then upon written request of one of such owners addressed to the Association, the matter shall be submitted to arbitration under such rules as may from time to time be adopted by the Association. If no such rules have been adopted, then the matter shall be submitted to three arbitrators, one chosen by each of the owners and the third by the two so chosen, or if the two arbitrators cannot agree as to the selection of the third arbitrator within five (5) days, then by any Judge of the Superior Court of Maricopa County, Arizona. A determination of the matter signed by any two of the three arbitrators shall be binding upon the owners, who shall share the cost of arbitration equally. In the event one party fails to choose an arbitrator within ten (10) days after personal receipt of a request in writing for arbitration from another party, then said other party shall have the right and power to choose both arbitrators.
  1. These covenants shall be binding upon the heirs and assigns of any owners, but no person shall be liable for any act or omission respecting any party wall except such as took place while an owner.