# ARTICLE XI: EASEMENTS

There is hereby created a blanket easement upon, across, over and under the common area for ingress, egress, installation, replacing, repairing and maintaining all utilities, including, but not limited to, water sewers, gas, telephones and electricity, and a master television antenna system. By virtue of this easement, it shall be expressly permissible for the providing electrical and/or telephone company to erect and maintain the necessary poles and other necessary equipment on said property and to affix and maintain electrical and/or telephone wires, circuits and conduits on, above, across and under the roofs and exterior walls of said townhouses. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this paragraph, no sewers, electrical lines, water lines, or other utilities may be installed or relocated on said premises except as initially programmed and approved by the major builder of said premises. This easement shall in no way affect any other recorded easements on said premises.

Each townhous and the common elements shall be subject to an easement for encroachments created by construction, settling and overhangs, as designed or constructed by the original builder. A valid easement for said encroachments and for the maintenance of same, so long as it stands, shall and does exist. In the event the multi0-family structure is partially or totally destroyed, and then rebuilt, the owners of townhouses agree that minor encroachments of parts of the adjacent townhouse units or common elements due to construction shall be permitted and that a valid easement for said encroachment and the maintenance thereof shall exist. Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, any encroachment permitted herein shall not exceed one (1) foot.