# ARTICLE IX: DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY

In the event any common element is damaged or destroyed by an owner or any of his guests, tenants, licensees, agents or members of his family, such owner does hereby irrevocably authorize the Association to repair said damaged element and the Association shall also repair said damaged element in a good workmanlike manner in substantial conformance with the original plans and specifications. The owner shall then repay the Association in the amount actually expended for such repairs.

In the event any townhouse is damaged or destroyed by an owner of any of his guests, tenants, licensees, agents or members of his family, such owner shall, within sixty (60) days from the date of the occurrence of the damage or destruction, enter into a binding bona fide contract for the repair and rebuilding the exterior of said townhouse and any damage to the exterior of adjacent townhouses or property in a good workmanlike manner in conformance with the original plans and specifications used in the construction of said townhouses. In the event such owner refuses or fails to so repair and rebuild any and all such damage to the exterior of the townhouse and adjacent property within a reasonable time, not to exceed six (6) months from the date of the occurrence of the damage or destruction, the Association by and through it’s Board of Directors, is hereby irrevocably authorized by such owner to repair and rebuild any such townhouse and/or adjacent property in a good workman like manner in conformance with the original plans and specifications of the townhouse. The owner shall then repay the Association in the amount actually expended for such repairs.

Each townhouse owner further agrees that these charges for repairs, if not paid within ten (10) days after completion of the work, shall be delinquent and shall become a lien upon said owner’s lot and townhouse and shall continue to be such alien until fully paid. Said lien shall be subordinate to any first mortgage or encumbrance on the subject property. Said charges shall bear interest from the date of delinquency at the rate of five percent (5%) per annum. The amount of principal and interest owed by said owner to the Association shall be a debt, and shall be collectible by any lawful procedure allowed by the laws of the State of Arizona.

Each such owner, buy his acceptance of a deed to a lot and townhouse, hereby expressly vets in the Association or its agent the right and power to bring all actions against such owner for the collection of such charges and to enforce the aforesaid lien by all methods available for the enforcement of such liens and such owner hereby expressly grants to the Association a power of sale in connection with said lien.

Nothing contained in this Article IX shall be construed in any way so as to relieve any insurance company from the payment of any and all amounts which would be payable under any policy or policies had not this Article been inserted.

In the event of a dispute between an owand the Board of Directors with respect to the cause of damage or the extent of repairs necessitated or with respect to the cost thereof, then upon written request of the owner addressed to the Association, the matter shall be submitted to ar arbitration under such rules as may from time to time be adopted by the Association or its Board of Directors. If no such rules have been adopted, then the matter shall be submitted to three arbitrators, one chosen by the Board of Directors, one chosen by the owner, and these two arbitrators shall then choose a third arbitrator. If the two arbitrators cannot agree as to the selection of the third arbitrator, then by any Judge of the Superior Court of Maricopa County, Arizona. A determination by any two of the three arbitrators shall be binding upon the owner and the Association, who shall share the cost of arbitration equally. In the event one party fails to choose an arbitrator within ten (10) days after personal receipt of a request in writing for arbitration from the other party, then said other party shall have the right and power to choose both arbitrators.